Okay hi!

[Slide 1- Till photos]

As seen in the title, its how not to get ripped off when you buy a house.
Have you ever wondered how these, or these and these houses are valued for?
What are people looking for in general?

Well with the ease of the web, people have been using 
real estate listing websites to hunt for the best houses and prices
instead of relying on a realtor.
About 51% of buyers found the house of their dreams online 
on platforms like Zillow, Realtor.com and more..



[Slide 2- After photos]

However without a realtor its hard to get a relative sense of what
is a good price or what the house is worth.

An average house price of the same squarefooting could vary 
in the same neighbourhood. What if its renovated/furnished? 
How will the price range?

With these questions, how do we equip buyers with valuable information
that could assist them to compare the properties they're interested in?



[Slide 3-Problem Statement]
To tackle this problem, a simplified framework will be introduced with
significant factors that can swing the house prices.

This simplified model aims to helps the buyer to guess-timate 
the house prices on-site without the use of tech.

From a economic standpoint, this allows a quicker evaluation and 
efficient way to price the house ensuring that the market place is fair.

-- Over to Gary --

[Final 30 features slides]
Just say the first 5.


[Coefficients of the 30 features]
How did we derive to the specific features?
We split it to 2 cats for practicality use.
For this case we look at features coefficients above > 0.04
The split are Major Features and Minor Features it will be elaborated in the next slide


[Simplified framework slide]
In general, these features will swing the prices.
-Mention the features-
For example if a person is looking to buy a house with a big basement
should they fork out extra is it worth it? Yes it is.

-Another example if the house have 2 kitchens, should the buyer
pay more for the extra kitchen? The ans would be no as the sale price
decreases because not many people need more than 1 kitchen.



[Last slide]
Based on the model, the features that are choosen has a coeffcient 
that are more than 0.04 to determine the importance of it.

The other features did not significantly impact the sale prices
so best to not consider them.

and the features that are significant and could swing the prices
are the 8 specific features, the information from this model 
would help the buyers make informed decisions to consider if its valued appropriately.

Thank you!













